>> Steve Kinney: Let's actually
take a look at an example, and
we'll see a page that we have going,
where we can play around with.
And that is,
>> Steve Kinney: Csp-playground,
that's a great name.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, we'll grab that.
And this site is possibly my best design
work ever, and I'm very proud of it.
>> Steve Kinney: So
we've got an awesome Google font.
I don't know if you've
heard of this Google font.
You can load any font.
We do have some inline scripting
that's happening, some CSS.
We've got this cat meme.
And this is from
the Frontend Masters site,
so if you move this image ever,
you will break my site, okay?
We've got some stuff to play with,
CORS headers that we may or may not use.
But yeah,
we've got a whole bunch of stuff.
We can look at my awesome markup too.
If anyone wants to see that,
it's really great.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, we can go into,
I think it's just public, no,
it's in Views cuz we need to
put one value in there later.
So you can see I load a bunch of
the Google fonts, as they call them.
I have a favicon from, this is cool.
If you ever need a favicon,
it's just fav.farm and
then slash any emoji, and
that becomes your favicon.
We got tailwind coming
from somewhere else.
We've got that Google
font style sheet as well.
We've got some inline styles that
make my awesome style happen.
A whole bunch of fun stuff,
remote pictures,
local pictures, just really
some of my best work, honestly.
And we can go ahead and
we can put in a CSP to prevent.
So I've got inline scripting running, and
this is XSS attack waiting to happen,
right?
I'm just gonna innerHTML this stuff right
in here and everything's gonna be great.
And so all of that seems really precarious
and something I probably shouldn't do.
And the cool part about the CSP
is that you can just go ahead and
give it a very granular list
of what is and is not allowed.
And honestly, it's one of those things
when someone shows you a CSP header,
you want to cry, because it's a bunch
of things you don't understand, but
it's actually, it's not that bad.
So like I said before,
you can put the tags in the head.
If you have Express,
you can use this library called Helmet,
which is kinda cool cuz it's headers,
get it?
But we'll do that, but
either one will work.
And again, the overall idea is the same,
whether or not you use Express or
something else, it doesn't really matter.
So in this case,
we will go ahead and import helmet.
>> Steve Kinney: Helmet from 'helmet',
and then you can use it as middleware.
So you can do app.use(helmet()).
And that kinda just sets up
with some basic stuff, but
then what we wanna do is app.use.
There's other setters you
can set here as well.
You can even do course policies,
you do helmet.contentSecurityPolicy.
>> Steve Kinney: And if you wanna
play around with the CORS pieces,
I've got that cors-field in there as well.
And so we can just start out with, I
forget what happens if I just put an empty
one here, but
we can find out the hard way.
It does some mostly
reasonable ideas at first.
You can see fonts are okay,
local images are okay as well.
The CSS seems to be good, but the remote
image didn't load, because again,
that could have been a bad get request.
You can see my inline scripts
don't load anymore, right?
And so even if a script got injected,
it doesn't matter, right?
Cuz if we take a look at this,
you can see the browser was like, nope.
Not allowing these things cuz it's not.
My favicon didn't even load.
My beautiful little emoji
favicon didn't even load.
We could get even more draconian here,
where we could say, we'll say,
let's only go with,
you can say no iframes whatsoever,
which we'll find out why that
might be a good thing later.
You can fully sandbox this thing.
You can get to the point where
even forms can't be submitted.
But let's go ahead and we'll just say,
let's just say these two here.
So we're not even loading
fonts from anywhere else.
Oop, let's see.
No, I don't want that either.
>> Steve Kinney: The one thing I'm not.
>> Steve Kinney: Those are the ones
loading internally, but
the font isn't, let's see.
>> Steve Kinney: So
we got a few of them blocked here.
My defaultSrc, I wonder what happens
if I change this one to none.
>> Steve Kinney: Maybe I have it cached.
I gotta see, let's open.
>> Steve Kinney: Truly breaking everything
I'm not super interested in, so
I'm not gonna play
around with it too much.
But we can see that it doesn't
matter what the inline scripts are,
mostly protected immediately.
I had it really broken before, where it
looked like a regular old plain HTML page.
That is while I aspire to show you that,
not really useful or helpful.
So I'm not gonna spend too much
time fussing with that, but
we can begin to loosen it
up a little bit as well.
So we've got a lot of that in place,
and we can,
I think I said before, we can begin
to build it out a little bit too.
So for instance,
I think if we wanted to allow,
you saw before, did I have the CSS from?
Let's see, let's say images, right?
We wanna let Frontend Masters in.
>> Steve Kinney: I think if I do that,
that's how I broke the CSS.
I let otherwise harmless CSS in.
If I say only for my own origin,
then now I'm down to the ugliest
version possible of the page.
Because we're not loading that third party
tailwind style sheet or anything along
those lines, we are saying only stuff
coming from the own origin, which is
basically solely that cat picture,
I think, if I'm remembering correctly.
I think I only left that in there for
that reason, but
I could say something like,
that should bring back the tailwind stuff.
Yeah, that's fine.
We can go look at the source, but
you can begin to put these things in,
you've got script, you've got style.
If you wanted to let that other code
run again, you could say, quotes.
>> Steve Kinney: My quoting got weird.
There we go.
I don't know what that is,
we'll take that out for a second.
So unsafe-inline, you can allow, again,
I'm gonna explain to
you why you shouldn't.
>> Steve Kinney: And yeah, you can play
around with a whole bunch of stuff here.
But the idea is, this is one of the
fundamental principles that we wanna talk
about here, which is instead of just
trying to block out the bad stuff, right?
Cuz someone's gotta
find a way around that.
What you begin to do is you just say, hey,
here is the list of things that I
want to begin to build up, right?
And you can kinda compose it over time,
right?
And kinda get all of that
in place as well, and
start to just allow list
those domains that you want.
So if we go look at this page, right, so
we could say something like,
for the font source, right?
Not that I really want that font back
all that badly, but to make a point.
>> Steve Kinney: You could say whether or
not you allow data attributes in there.
If you want to on the Socialite app, and
I'll leave this as an exercise to the
reader, you can put in a URL for a photo.
So you could literally devoid yourself and
hit everyone with a worm, right?
Cuz then everyone who sees
your thing will also post.
So you can also block anything, but
either data attributes or
stuff from the on site.
You can kinda play around with
a bunch of these different examples.
So this is one that will get
me back to the glory days, but
a more protected glory days.
So this is one that allows all the same
stuff, but if new, [LAUGH] it's like,
if new script injection happened,
I would be safe.
So we can kinda walk through
this one here, where by default,
the default self is anything
from the own origin.
Here, we can choose whether or
not we want to allow the save-inline.
I am gonna choose to still block that,
I think.
And then we've got this idea of, we've got
whether or not we wanna inject styles.
I'm gonna say no to that,
but keep the rest.
Awesome, images, here we can let it from
static.frontendmasters as
well as my favicon, right?
But now, if new stuff gets added for
any reason, right?
And even if you had a content site,
let's say you were making it on Instagram,
right?
They upload the photo,
that photo's probably on your CDN, right?
So you would then say, hey, the S3 bucket
that I have with Cloud flare with the DNS,
I'm gonna allow that.
But if other images get put in here
somewhere, that could be a CSRF attack,
it could be, I don't know if you can.
I mean, it could actually be,
there is one of the XSS attacks that
I can show you in a second
if you really wanna see it,
is you throw in an image tag
with a BS-like source, and
then you give it the onerror
attribute to run JavaScript.
It immediately breaks, and
this will even stop that as well, right?
Cuz it wouldn't be in that list,
it would never try to load that resource.
So actually, it's like, no,
I only care about script injection.
No, you care about a wide range of
things cuz it doesn't always have to be
JavaScript to execute JavaScript.
Your sanitizer should get that,
of course, but if it doesn't,
we saw that with the onmouseover link
that was one of the Twitter worms, right?
A CSP would have caught that
if CSPs fully existed then.
So you do wanna start out draconian.
Now, I get it, you have a legacy app,
you probably can't do that.
There is a header to set it to report,
right?
At which point, it won't block anything,
but you can either have it show up
in your console, or you can give it
a URI to actually send the reports to.
So you can actually see
where the violations are and
begin to kinda build it
up like that as well.
So we'll say, yeah, no iframes as well.
Put all of this in place.
This is the reportTo,
I think you can set a URL later.
So on and so forth.
Where do we allow fonts from?
Cool, and so that should get me
back to the glory days, right?
You can see my inline script didn't load,
that I had before, that pink bar.
If I put back that,
>> Steve Kinney: Now
my inline script loads because I
had to opt in to inline scripting.
So just the act of having one,
honestly, at all,
I think even if this was anywhere,
I think I can put a star in here.
But the point is, it would still,
I think, out of the box,
save you from at least the worst,
which is not everything, though.
And it's why, if you can, one of
the principles is allow list your way up,
not deny list your way down, right?
And start to add those
things in accordingly.
So in summary, let's look at
the content security policies.
Why do they exist?
To stop cross-site scripting, right?
Cuz again, as we saw,
the CSP attacks that we saw, first of all,
they all had earlier dates, right?
I think a lot of the cookie
policies protect you there.
The CSP is here to solve the idea they
got the code in on your same site, right?
And so, by only allowing things
that you allow for, again,
the name of the game is shrinking
the surface area as low as possible.
So you're already sanitizing inputs,
you're already trying to strip
out that onmouseover it.
But if they do something where it's like,
I found out putting a new line
between Java and script loads it.
And now it's around your filter,
you then, all right,
welcome to my next line of defense,
please go away, right?
And at some points, if it's just become so
hard to attack you,
maybe there is a one
one-thousandth of a chance, but
at some point, the idea is to make
it as unappealing as possible.
Cool.
>> Steve Kinney: Like I said, if you need
to, you can actually set a second header
called
Content-Security-Policy-Report-Only,
which will allow you to log them.
You can actually give it
a URL to send it to, and
so you could collect them server-side.
Again, if you can get
away without doing this,
don't do it because you're not
necessarily getting the protection,
you're just getting a way to start paying
down tech debt to get all the way there.
There are some old headers, so check your
code base for these, they're deprecated.
Maybe they still work, but
assume they don't, right?
Cool, and again,
if you can get it all the way down,
you can get to the point where you don't
necessarily have to worry about too much,
but at least get to
the point we're not letting.
You can do the refractor that gets your
inline scripts out to script files
that you load on your own domain.
And so that at least,
if someone does get another inline script,
those are completely blocked.
Inline style,
which you can do on that XSS playground,
you can also put a div with a background.
You do a div that is a style tag in it and
it says body background red.
You can do all sorts of stuff to that
page that is all very rude and have fun.
But you can also then try it on that page
too, put a CSP on that page and see,
of those attacks, which ones still work?
Almost none of them will.